#!/usr/bin/perl -w
############################################################
#
# $Id: footprint-scan,v 1.115 2013/05/02 06:02:41 jvanheld Exp $
#
############################################################

## use strict;

=pod

=head1 NAME

footprint-scan

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Scan promoters of orthologous genes with one or several
position-specific scoring matrices (PSSM) in order to detect enriched
motifs, and thereby predict phylogenetically conserved target genes.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Jacques.van. Helden <Jacques.van.Helden@ulb.ac.be>

=item Alejandra Medina-Rivera  <amedina@lcg.unam.mx>

=back

=head1 CATEGORY

=over

=item comparative genomics

=back

=head1 USAGE

footprint-scan [-m matrix_inputfile] [-o outputfile] [-v #] [...]

=head1 INPUT FORMAT

=head2 Query gene(s)

The analysis can be performed either on a single gene, or several
genes separately (option -sep_genes), or on a group of genes
altogether.

Query genes can be entered on the command line (option -q) or in a
text file (option-genes). Alternatively, the option -all_genes will
run the analysis on all the genes of a genome.

=head2 Position-specific scoring matrices (PSSMs)

I<footprint-scan> requires a collection of (at least one)
position-specific scoring matrices (PSSM).

All the format supported by I<matrix-scan> can be used to enter the
matrices. However, we recommend to use the TRANSFAC format, which
supports multiple matrices (we usually want tos can promoters with a
full collection of matrices), and associates an identifier with each
matrix (e.g. the name of the transcription factor).

=head3 Example of TRANSFAC format

The following example shows a text file describing two matrices,
representing the binding motifs annotated in RegulonDB for AgaR and
AraC, respectively. Motifs must be separated by a line containing a
double slash (//).

The complete file can be downloaded from RegulonDB
(http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/).

 AC  ECK12_ECK120012515_AgaR.24
 XX
 ID  ECK12_ECK120012515_AgaR.24
 XX
 P0       A     T     C     G
 1        5     0     1     5
 2        6     1     4     0
 3        4     0     5     2
 4        5     4     0     2
 5        4     6     0     1
 6        1     5     3     2
 7        0     2     8     1
 8        4     1     1     5
 9        4     5     1     1
 10       3     8     0     0
 11       5     6     0     0
 12       1     8     1     1
 13       2     0     4     5
 14       4     5     2     0
 15       3     8     0     0
 16       3     8     0     0
 17       0     2     9     0
 18       0     2     2     7
 19       3     7     1     0
 20       4     7     0     0
 21       3     8     0     0
 22       3     4     0     4
 23       3     4     0     4
 24       3     4     3     1
 25       3     8     0     0
 XX
 //
 AC  ECK12_ECK120012316_AraC.18
 XX
 ID  ECK12_ECK120012316_AraC.18
 XX
 P0       A     T     C     G
 1        0    10     0     3
 2        7     4     1     1
 3        0     6     5     2
 4        2     2     3     6
 5        0     0     6     7
 6        9     0     0     4
 7        0     2     9     2
 8        2     7     3     1
 9        9     3     0     1
 10       7     4     0     2
 11       4     8     0     1
 12       3     3     5     2
 13       2    10     0     1
 14       2     7     1     3
 15       6     1     6     0
 16       0    11     2     0
 17       1     0     3     9
 18       1     5     5     2
 19       5     2     0     6
 XX
 //


=head1 OUTPUT FORMAT

The result comprises several files for the orthologs, upstream
sequences, matrix-scan results, feature-maps. By default, a directory
is created for each query gene, with a name indicating the parameters:

 footprints/[taxon]/[Organism]/[gene]

Alternatively, the output folder can be specified manually with the
option I<-o>.

=head1 EXAMPLES OF UTILIZATION

=head2 Detecting trans-acting factors for single gene, with a collection of known motifs

Let us assume that we have a collection of PSSMs annotated for a given
organism (e.g. the matrices for all the I<Escherichia coli>
transcription factors annotated in RegulonDB). We would likt to scan
the promoters of orthologs of a given gene, in order to predict the
transcription factors that might be involved in its regulation. The
program will count the hits for each matrix, and report those showing
a significant enrichment in the promoters of its orthologs.

In this example, we use a slightly higher verbosity than usually (-v
2) in order to keep track of the progress of the analysis. This also
reports the commands that are executed, and allows us to examine all
their parameters.

 footprint-scan -v 2  -org Escherichia_coli_K12 \
    -taxon Enterobacteriaceae -q sodA -q lexA -q araC \
    -bgfile ${RSAT}/public_html/data/taxon_frequencies/Enterobacteriaceae/dyads_3nt_sp0-20_upstream-noorf_Enterobacteriaceae-noov-1str.freq.gz \
    -m RegulonDB_matrices_transfac_format.txt \
    -matrix_format transfac \
    -matrix_suffix RegulonDB \
    -sep_genes

 footprint-scan -v 2  -org Escherichia_coli_K12 \
    -taxon Enterobacteriaceae -q sodA  \
    -bgfile ${RSAT}/public_html/data/taxon_frequencies/Enterobacteriaceae/dyads_3nt_sp0-20_upstream-noorf_Enterobacteriaceae-noov-1str.freq.gz \
    -m RegulonDB_matrices.tab \
    -matrix_format tab \
    -matrix_suffix RegulonDB \
    -sep_genes


=head2 Detecting all putative target genes for a given transcription factor

Given a PSSM we would like detect new putative binding sites for a
given transcription factor. The usual approach would be to retrieve
all upstream sequences of the organism of interest, and then search for
high-scoring sites with matrix-scan. 

However, observing a single high scoring site in one promoter does not
necessarily means that this gene is regulated by the potentially bound
transcription factor. 

As we know sequences with a functional relevance migth be conserved
througth some branches of phylogeny. So we expect binding sites with a
functional rele- vance to be conserved in a group of close othologous
sequences.  footprint-scan can search for putative bindign sites in
the hole set of up- stream regions of an organism while evaluating if
the detected binding sites are conserved (over-represented) in the
respective orthologous sequences.

 footprint-scan -v 2  -org Escherichia_coli_K12 \
    -taxon Enterobacteriaceae -all_genes \
    -bgfile ${RSAT}/public_html/data/taxon_frequencies/Enterobacteriaceae/dyads_3nt_sp0-20_upstream-noorf_Enterobacteriaceae-noov-1str.freq.gz \
    -m MetJ_Regulon_matrix.tab \
    -matrix_format tab \
    -matrix_suffix RegulonDB \
    -sep_genes

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 footprint-discovery

The difference betsween I<footprint-scan> and I<footprint-discovery>
is that I<footprint-scan> requires prior knowledge of the motifs (in
the form of position-specific matrices), whereas
I<footprint-discovery> perfoms I<ab initio> motif discovery.

=head1 WISH LIST

=head2 Options to be added

=over

=item B<-rand>

When the option I<-rand> is activated, I<footprint-scan> scans random
selections of promoters rather than promoters of orthologs.

This option serves to perform negative controls in orde to estimate
empirically the rate of false prediction and check its correspondence
with the theoretical estimation of the significance.

The random selections are done by passing the option I<-rand> to the
program I<get-orthologs>.

=item B<-crer>

Return Cis-Regulatory elements Enriched-Regions (CRER).

Calculate the statistical significance of the number of hits in
windows of variable sizes. The number of hits is the sum of matches
above a predefined threshold set on hits p-values, for all matrices
and on both strands (if -2str). The maximum size for a CRER is defined
by the option -crer_max.

The prior probability to find an instance of the motif is the same for
all matrices, and corresponds to the chosen pval threshold. Within a
region of maximal CRER size, subwindows are defined between each hits,
and the observed number of matches in a subwindow is the sum of hits
above the threshold. The significance of the observed number of
matches in a subwindow is estimated by calculating a P-value using the
binomial distribution (Aerts et al., 2003).

=item B<-lth_crer_size>

Minimal CRER size in bps

=item B<-crer_pval>

Pval cutoff for selecting CRERs

=item B<-uth_crer_size>

Maximal CRER size in bps


=back

=head2 Revise the manual

The manual is still very incomplete, Jacques van Helden needs to
revise and complete it.

=head2 Support as Web services

On the basis of the existing Web service for footprint-discovery.

=head2 Web interface

Alejandra Medina-Rivera will implement the Web interface.  It would be
more convenient to program the Web page after the Web services, in
order to benefit ffrom the support of Web services (including the
token). To be checked with Morgane Thomas-Chollier & Olivier Sand.

=head2 Tutorial

It would be worth preparing a tutorial (or a chapter in Methods in
Molecular Biology) to explain in detail the interpretation of the
result.

The tutorial could cover the 3 interfaces (command-line, Web services
and Web form).

=head2 Motif co-occurrences

After having detected the motifs in the different sequences, analyze
their co-occurrences in order to report the factors having sites in
the same sequences (putatively interacting factors). Actually , this
option should be implemented in matrix-scan rather than
footprint-scan, because it applies to any type of analysis.

=head2 Neighbout gene name in output table

Add name of upstream neighbour to the synthetic tables, in order
to detect pairs of gene sharing the same promoter.


=cut


BEGIN {
    if ($0 =~ /([^(\/)]+)$/) {
	push (@INC, "$`lib/");
    }
}
require "RSA.lib";
require "footprint.lib.pl";
use RSAT::MatrixReader;
use RSAT::SeqUtil;


################################################################
## Main package
package main;
{

  ################################################################
  ## Initialise parameters
  local $start_time = &RSAT::util::StartScript();
  $program_version = do { my @r = (q$Revision: 1.115 $ =~ /\d+/g); sprintf "%d."."%02d" x $#r, @r };
  #    $program_version = "0.00";

  $main::verbose = 0;
  #$main::in = STDIN;
  $main::out = STDOUT;

  local $no_die = 1;		## Don't die when a problem occurs
  local $die_on_error = 1;
  local $skip = 0;
  local $last = 0;
  local $skip_m = 0;
  local $last_m = 0;
  $main::window_size=50; #default length of window size based on bacterial genome size

  ## Transcription factor (TF) parameter
  $main::tf="";

  ## Parameters for promoter retrieval
  local $taxon;			## Reference taxon
  local $organism_name;		## Query organism name
  local $organism = "";         ## Organism object (will be instantiated in footprint.lib.pl)
  local @query_genes = ();	## list of query genes
  local %gene_list = ();        ## ALEJANDRA: CAN YOU CHECK IF THIS IS STILL REQUIRED ?
  local $infer_operons = 0;     ## Infer operon leader genes
  $main::sep_genes = 0;	        ## Analyze each gene separately
#  $main::crer=0; ## ON THE WISH LIST: when set to one, look for CRER over-representation
  local $skip_gene = 0;
  local %top_sig_row = ();

  local $batch_matrix=0;

  local $dist_thr; $dist_thr = 55; ## Used in footprint.lib.pl

  ##################
  ## Option for randomized genes
  $main::rand = 0;


  ## Matrix scanning parameters
  local @matrix_files = ();
  $main::matrix_table_file=0;
  local $strands = "-2str";	## Strands for pattern matching
  local $pseudo = 1;
  $main::bg_pseudo = 0.05;
  local $strands = "-2str"; ## Strands for motif discovery and pattern matching
  #local $matrix_dir="data/matrices";
  #local $matrix_file = $matrix_dir."/PHO4_matrix.tab";
  local $matrix_suffix = "";
  local $matrix_format = "tab";
  local $markov = 1;
  local $map_format = "png";
  local $plot_format = "png";
  local %lth = ();
  local %uth = ();
  local $occ_sig_opt = "";
  local $occ_sig_graph_opt = "";
  local $pval=1e-4;
  local $occ_th=5;
  local %values_at_th=(); # Hash to store values at pval threshold
  local %query_indexes = ();
  local $bg_distrib; $bg_distrib = ""; ## Used in footprint.lib.pl

  # ahcorcha
  ## Tree for Bayesian score 
  local $tree = "";
  local $bbls_draw = "";
  # /ahcorcha
  
  ## Feature maps
  local $map_opt = "";

  ## Filter
  $main::no_purge=0;
  $main::filter=0;
  $main::filter_pval=0;
 # %occ_sig_file=()

  #$bg_format="oligo";
  #  $main::footprint_scan=1;
  ## Local definition of threshold parameters passed to matrix-scan
  ## used to check if the options passed to matrix-scna are correct

  local %lth = ();		# lower threshold values
  local %uth = ();		# upper threshold values
  @supported_thresholds = qw (
			      score
			      normw
			      pval
			      ln_pval
			      sig
			      proba_m
			      proba_b
			      rank
			      rank_pm
			      occ
			      occ_cum
			      inv_cum
			      exp_occ
			      occ_pval
			      occ_eval
			      occ_sig
			      occ_sig_rank
			      crer_size
			      crer_sites
			      crer_sig
			      crer_pval
			     );
  my $supported_thresholds = join ",", @supported_thresholds;
  %main::supported_threshold = ();

  foreach my $thr (@supported_thresholds) {
    $main::supported_threshold{$thr} = 1;
  }


  my $supported_graph_thresholds = join ",", @supported_graph_thresholds;
  %main::supported_graph_threshold = ();

  foreach my $thrg (@supported_graph_thresholds) {
    $main::supported_graph_threshold{$thrg} = 1;
  }

  ## info_lines Ocurrence Significance graph
  ## by default lines are not drawn
  $main::draw_info_lines=0;

  ## Supported-tasks added to those of footprint.lib.pl

  ## Supported tasks
  @supported_tasks = qw(
			all
			operons
			query_seq
			filter_scan
			orthologs_tf
			orthologs
			ortho_seq
			purge
			theor_distrib
			occ_sig
			occ_sig_graph
			scan
			map
			synthesis
			bbls
		       ); # ahcorcha: Added bbls task.
  $supported_tasks = join (",", @supported_tasks);
  %supported_task = ();
  foreach my $task (@supported_tasks) {
    $supported_task{$task} = 1;
  }

  
  ## PArameters for matrix-wise report tables
  local $sort_criterion = "sig"; ## Supported: sig | alpha | list;
  local @info_fields = qw(name
                            upstr_neighb_name
                            descr); #### TO DEBUG: UPSTR_NEIGHB_NAME DOES NOT WORK


  #up_neighb_name
  #
  #    upstr_neighb_id


  ################################################################
  ## Read argument values  
  &ReadArguments();

  ################################################################
  ## Upper P-value thrshold for selecting regulatory interactions, and
  ## for scanning promoters.
  if ($scan_opt) {
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Please use the footprint-scan option -pval to specify p-value, rather than entering it with -scan_opt")   if ($scan_opt =~/-uth pval/);
  }
  local $scan_opt .= " -uth pval ".$main::pval;

  ################################################################
  ## Check argument values

  ## Check parameters for footprint analysis
  &CheckFootprintParameters();

  ## Define main output directory
  &SetMainOutputDir();

  ################################################################
  ## Check compatibility between -batch, -all and -task synthesis, whcih can't be use together since this can cause sever file dependency problems

  ## Check compatibility between -batch and -task all
  if (  ((scalar(keys(%task)) == 0) || ($task{all} ) ) && ($batch)  ) {
      &RSAT::error::FatalError("Execution of all tasks is incompatible with \"-batch\" option, you should execute each tasks independently, to avoid dependency files problems. See help \"-task\" to consult all possible tasks ");
  }

  ## Check compatibility between -batch and -task synthesis
  if ($task{synthesis} && ($batch || $batch_matrix)) {
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Synthesis task is incompatible with \"-batch\" and \"-batch_matrix\" option, no other tasks where specified") if (scalar(keys(%task)) == 1);
    &RSAT::message::Warning("Synthesis task is incompatible with \"-batch\"  and \"-batch_matrix\" option, all other tasks will be performed");
    $task{synthesis}=0;
  }


  ################################################################
  ## Check the compatibility between matrix input modes.

  ## Options -m and -matrix_table are mutually exclusive
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("Usage of -m and -matrix_table are mutually exclusive matrices added with option -m should be included in the matrix_table_file")
    if ((scalar(@matrix_files) > 0) && ($main::matrix_table_file));

  ## Options -matrix_format and -matrix_table are mutually exclusive
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("Usage of -matrix_format and -matrix_table are mutually exclusive. Matrix tables include a column for specifying matrix formats.")
    if ((scalar(@matrix_files) > 0) && ($main::matrix_table_file));

  ## Check compatibility between options -tf and -matrix_table
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("For using the option -tf with option  -matrix_table you should type \"-tf file\" to indicate that TF names are included in the matrixx table file")
    if (($main::matrix_table_file) && ($main::tf ne "") && ($main::tf ne "file"));

  
  ################################################################
  ## Check parameters for bbls # ahcorcha

  &RSAT::error::FatalError("Usage of bbls task requieres a tree file specified by -tree option.") if ($task{bbls} && $main::tree eq "" );  
  
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("The -tree option is exclusive of the bbls task.") if (!$task{bbls} && $main::tree ne "" );

  &RSAT::error::FatalError("Option -bbls_draw only works with bbls.") if (!$task{bbls} && $main::bbls_draw ne "" );
  # /ahcorcha
  
  ################################################################
  ## Check parameters for matrix-scan
  local $ms_general_parameters = " -v 1"; ## for all matices
  if (defined($main::infile{bg})) {
    $ms_general_parameters .= " -bgfile ".$main::infile{bg};
    if (defined($main::bg_format)) {
      $ms_general_parameters .= " -bg_format ".$main::bg_format;
    }
  } elsif ($bg_method eq "input") {
    $ms_general_parameters .= " -bginput ";
    if (defined($markov)) {
      $ms_general_parameters .= " -markov ".$markov;
    } else {
      &RSAT::error::FatalError("The option -bginput requires to specify a Markov model (option -markov)");
    }
  } elsif ($bg_method eq "window") {
    $ms_general_parameters .= " -window ". $main::window_size ." " ;
    if (defined($markov)) {
      $ms_general_parameters .= " -markov ".$markov;
    } else {
      &RSAT::error::FatalError("The option -bginput requires o specify a Markov model (option -markov)");
    }
  } else {
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must define a background model using either -bgfile , -window or -bginput ");
  }


  ## Sequence format
  $ms_general_parameters .= " -seq_format fasta";

  ##Filter
  if ($main::filter) {
    $main::filter_pval=1e-4 unless ($main::filter_pval);
  }
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must use the option -filter in order to set -filter_pval") if ($main::filter_pval && !$main::filter);
  &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must specify a bgfile for the filter task") if ($main::filter && !$main::filter_bgfile);

  ## Thresholds
  foreach my $key (keys(%lth)) {
    $ms_general_parameters .= " -lth ".$key." ".$lth{$key};
  }
  foreach my $key (keys(%uth)) {
    $ms_general_parameters .= " -uth ".$key." ".$uth{$key};
  }

  ## Strands
  $ms_general_parameters .= " ".$strands;

  ## Origin for the positions
  $ms_general_parameters .= " -origin end";

  ## Pseudo-count for the matrix
  $ms_general_parameters .= " -pseudo ".$pseudo;

  ## Pseudo-frequency for the background model
  $ms_general_parameters .= " -bg_pseudo ".$main::bg_pseudo;

  ## Read table of matrices
  my %matrix_table_hash=();
  if ($main::matrix_table_file) {
    my ($mlist, $input_dir) = &OpenInputFile($main::matrix_table_file);
    while (<$mlist>) {
      chomp;
      next if ($_=~/^;/);		# skip comment lines
      next if ($_=~/^#/);		# skip header lines
      next if ($_=~/^--/);	# skip mysql-type comment lines
      next unless (/\S/);	# skip empty lines

      my @fields = split /\t+/;
      my $matrix_file=$fields[0];
      my $matrix_mt_suffix = $fields[1];
      my $matrix_mt_format = $fields[2];

       #If -rand option is selected, add a suffix to the matrix suffix to id this out files
      if ($main::rand){
      $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix."_rand"}{"file"}= $matrix_file;
      $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix."_rand"}{"format"}= $matrix_mt_format;
      $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix."_rand"}{"tf"}= $matrix_mt_suffix    if ($main::tf eq "file") ;
      }
      else{
	   $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix}{"file"}= $matrix_file;
	   $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix}{"format"}= $matrix_mt_format;
	   $matrix_table_hash{$matrix_mt_suffix}{"tf"}= $matrix_mt_suffix    if ($main::tf eq "file") ;
      }
    }
    close $mlist;

    my $matrix_nb_from_table = scalar(keys %matrix_table_hash);
    &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Read a list of",$matrix_nb_from_table,"matrices from file", $main::matrix_table_file) if ($main::verbose >= 2);
  }


  ################################################################
  ## Index matrix file entered separately with the option -m and their
  ## format.

  &RSAT::message::Warning("Option -tf is combined with multiple matrices, all matrices will be taken as being alternative motifs of the same transcriptional factor, if this is not the case please see option  -matrix_table ") if ( (scalar(@matrix_files)>1) && ($main::tf)) ;

  if (scalar(@matrix_files)>0) {
    my $mcount =1;
    foreach my $m_option_matrices (@matrix_files) {
      if ((!$m_suffix) && ($main::tf) && ($main::matrix_suffix eq "")) {
	$matrix_suffix = $main::tf ;
      } else {
	$matrix_suffix = "Matrix";
      }
      $matrix_suffix .= "_rand" if ($main::rand); #If -rand option is selected, add a suffix to the matrix suffix to id this out files

      if (scalar(@matrix_files) == 1) {
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix}{"file"}= $m_option_matrices;
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix}{"format"}= $main::matrix_format ;
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix}{"tf"}=$main::tf if ($main::tf) ;
	$mcount++;
      } elsif (scalar(@matrix_files)>1) {
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix.$mcount}{"file"}= $m_option_matrices;
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix.$mcount}{"format"}= $main::matrix_format ;
	$matrix_table_hash{$matrix_suffix.$mcount}{"tf"}=$main::tf if ($main::tf) ;

      }
    }
  }

  ################
  ## Skip and last controls for multiple matrices
  my @analyzed_matrices=sort(keys %matrix_table_hash);

  ## Apply the -skip_m and -last_m options
  if ($last_m > 0) {
      if ($skip_m > $last_m) {
	  &RSAT::error::FatalError("Incompatible skip_m and last_m values (no matrix left for analysis): -skip_m $skip_m -last_m $last_m");
      }
      if (scalar(@analyzed_matrices) > $last_m) {
	  @analyzed_matrices= splice(@analyzed_matrices,0,$last_m);
	  &RSAT::message::Warning("Truncated the end of the matrices list (last_m $last_m)", "Remaining matrices", scalar(@analyzed_matrices), join(";", @analyzed_matrices));
      } else {
	  &RSAT::message::Warning("Cannot apply option -last_m $last_m because matrices list is too short (".scalar(@analyzed_matrices).")");
      }
  }
  if ($skip_m > 0) {
      if (scalar(@analyzed_matrices) > $skip_m) {
	  @analyzed_matrices= splice(@analyzed_matrices,$skip_m, (scalar(@analyzed_matrices) - $skip_m));
	  &RSAT::message::Warning("Truncated the beginning of the matrix list (skip_m $skip_m)", "Remaining matrices", scalar(@analyzed_matrices), join(";", @analyzed_matrices));
      } else {
	  &RSAT::error::FatalError("No gene left after applying the option -skip $skip_m (gene list contains ".scalar(@analyzed_matrices)." genes)");
      }
  }
 &RSAT::message::Warning("Matrices will be analyzed in alphabetic order \t Number of matrices",  scalar(@analyzed_matrices),join(";", @analyzed_matrices))   if ($main::verbose>=2);


  ################
  ## Check that at least one matrix has been entered
  my $matrix_nb =  scalar(@analyzed_matrices);
  if ($matrix_nb > 0) {
    &RSAT::message::Info($matrix_nb, "matrices specified") if ($main::verbose >= 2);
  } else {
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must specify at least one matrix file (option -m or -matrix_table)");
  }

  ################################################################
  ## Create basic command line for -batch_matrix commands

  if ($batch_matrix) {

    #################################
    ## Get the command used, so we can recover the general parammeters
    $batch_matrix_argument_string = "";
    foreach my $a (@main::ARGV) {
      if (($a =~ /\s+/)  ||
	  ($a !~ /\S+/) ||
	  ($a =~ /[\(\)\>\<\&]/)) {
	$batch_matrix_argument_string  .= " '$a'";
      } else {
	$batch_matrix_argument_string  .= " $a";
      }
    }

    ## Matrix and TF are set by each matrix
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-matrix +\S+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-matrix_table +\S+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-tf +\S+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-matrix_format +\S+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-skip_m +\d+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-last_m +\d+/ /;
    $batch_matrix_argument_string=~s/-batch_matrix/ /;
    &RSAT::message::Info(" Arguments to be sent to all commands for the PC cluster ",  $batch_matrix_argument_string )if ($main::verbose >= 0);
  }

  ## Open Matrices report
  my ($matrices_synthesis_index,$matrices_synthesis_table)= &OpenMatricesReport() if ($task{synthesis});

  ################################################################
  ## Iterate over matrices and genes
  &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Starting analysis") if ($main::verbose >= 2);
  my $m = 0;			## Matrix counter
  foreach my $ms (@analyzed_matrices) {
    $m++;

    %top_sig=();
    local $m_suffix = $ms;
    local $matrix_file=$matrix_table_hash{$m_suffix}{"file"} ;
    local $matrix_format=$matrix_table_hash{$m_suffix}{"format"} ;
    local $tf=$matrix_table_hash{$m_suffix}{"tf"} if ($matrix_table_hash{$m_suffix}{"tf"}) ;

    unless (-s $matrix_file){
	&RSAT::message::Warning("Matrix file does not exist. Matrix file is mandatory.", $matrix_file)   ;
	&RSAT::message::Warning("Analyzing next matrix.")   ;
	next;
    }

    ################################################################
    ## If requiered with -batch_matrix option, generate a separate
    ## command for each matrix and send it to the cluster.
    if ($batch_matrix) {
	$batch = 1;
	$batch_cmd = "";
	my $script_dir = $SCRIPTS; ## JvH: just to avoid warnings when starting the program
	my $cmd = $SCRIPTS."/footprint-scan ";
	$cmd .= " -v  ".$main::verbose;
	$cmd .= " -m  ".$matrix_file;
	$cmd .=" -matrix_format ".$matrix_format;
	$cmd .= " -tf ".$tf;
	$cmd.= " ". $batch_matrix_argument_string;
	#print "$cmd \n";
	&RSAT::message::Warning("Command to cluster for matrix ",  $m_suffix , ":" ,$cmd )  if ($main::verbose >= 0);
	&doit($cmd, $dry, $die_on_error, $main::verbose, $batch, $job_prefix);
	#&one_command($cmd) ;
	$batch=0;
	next;
    }

    ## Initialize variable that keeps the current file with othorlogs for the current TF
    $main::tf_ortho_file=() if $tf;
    
    ################################################################
    ## Complete parameters for matrix scan commands with specific
    ## information for the matrix.
    local $ms_parameters =  $ms_general_parameters;
    $ms_parameters .= " -m ".$matrix_file;

    &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must specify the matrix format (option -matrix_format)") unless ($matrix_format);
    $ms_parameters .= " -matrix_format ".$matrix_format;

    ## Matrix suffix
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("You must specify a matrix suffix (option -matrix_suffix or second colm in -matrix_table file)")
	unless (defined($m_suffix));
    $m_suffix.= "_infer-operons" if ($infer_operons);
    &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Analyzing matrix", $m."/".$matrix_nb) if ($main::verbose >= 1);

    ################################################################
    ## If the option -tf is used, also run footprint-scan for
    ## the transcripiton factor-coding gene (in addition to the
    ## query genes).
    if ($tf) {
      &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Analyzing TF", $tf) if ($main::verbose >= 1);
      eval {
	local $current_gene= $tf;
	$global_filter=$main::filter;
	$main::filter = 0;
	$global_rand=$main::rand;
	$main::rand = 0;
	&GetOrthologsTF($current_gene)  ;
	$main::filter = $global_filter;
	$main::rand = $global_rand;
      };

      ################################################################
      ## Report caught errors
      ##
      ## Note by Ale: THIS IS NOT WORKING PROPERLY ANY MORE THE
      ## ONE_COMMAND SENDS ALL TO THE CURRENT OPEN FILE.
      ##
      ## Note by JvH (2015-03-09) : in principle I fixed this, please check.
      if ($@) {
	if ($no_die) {
	  ## Catch error and report in in log file
	  print $out join("\t", "ERROR", $current_gene, $@);
	  &RSAT::message::Warning("ERROR", $current_gene, $@);
	} else {
	  &RSAT::error::FatalError($@);
	}
      }
      if ($task{orthologs}){
	  unless(-s $main::tf_ortho_file ){
	  &RSAT::message::Warning("There was not a single organism with an ortholog for the specified TF. Please make sure that you have ran the orthologs_tf task before trying to get the orthologs for the query genes ") if ($main::verbose >= 0);
	  next;
	  }
      }
    }

    ################################################################
    ## Open synthesis table per matrix.
    if ($task{synthesis}) {
	($synthesis_index, $synthesis_table,$synthesis_all_table) = &OpenSynthesisPerMatrix ;
	&RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis files: "," Index ". $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"} . " Table  ". $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"} );
	print $synthesis_all_table join ("\t", "#gene","TF","weight_at_th","occ_at_th","exp_at_th","sig_at_th","top_sig","score_at_topsig"),"\n"; ## Header for the complete report table
      }

    ################################################################
    ## Obtain the score related to the threshold p-value for selecting
    ## the recovered interactions if a bg_file is given this calculus
    ## can be done per matrix, if -bginput is used the calculaiton is
    ## done by Matrix-query_gene pair before calculating the
    ## occurrence significance.
    if( defined($main::infile{bg}) ){
	$dir{matrix_result_dir} = join( "/",$dir{output_root}, $org_selection_prefix, $organism_name,$m_suffix);
	&RSAT::util::CheckOutDir($dir{matrix_result_dir});
	$outfile{matrix_distrib} = join( "/",$dir{synthesis},$m_suffix."_matrix-distrib_occsig.tab");
	&CalcMAtrixTheorDistrib   ;
    }
    
    ################################################################
    ## Analyze query genes separately or altogether.

    if ($main::sep_genes) {
      # if ($task{synthesis}) {
      # 	($synthesis_index, $synthesis_table,$synthesis_all_table) = &OpenSynthesisPerMatrix ;
      # 	&RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis files: "," Index ". $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"} . " Table  ". $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"} );
      # 	print $synthesis_all_table join ("\t", "#gene","TF","weight_at_th","occ_at_th","exp_at_th","sig_at_th","top_sig","score_at_topsig"),"\n"; ## Header for the complete report table

      # }

      #      &RSAT::message::Debug("query_genes", scalar(@query_genes), join(";", @query_genes)) if ($main::;

      my $g = 0;
      my $gene_nb = scalar(@query_genes);
      local $current_gene;
      foreach $current_gene (@query_genes) {
	$g++;
	&RSAT::message::TimeWarn("\tAnalyzing gene", $g."/".$gene_nb, $current_gene) if ($main::verbose >= 2);
	eval {
	  &RunFootprintScan($current_gene);
	};
	if ($@) {
	  if ($no_die) {
	    ## Catch error and report in in log file
	    print $out join("\t", "ERROR", $current_gene, $@);
	    &RSAT::message::Warning("ERROR", $current_gene, $@);
	  } else {
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError($@);
	  }
	}
      }

      #  &RSAT::message::Debug("Top sig", join ("\t","top genes ", keys( %top_sig)), "\n" ) if ($main::verbose >= 0);



      ################################################################
      ## Create the matrix-wise report table (tab-delimited + HTML).
      if ($task{synthesis}) {
	&RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Generating matrix-wise synthetic tables", $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"}) if ($main::verbose >= 2);
	my $syn_dir = `dirname $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"}`;
	chomp($syn_dir);
	my $img_hight=120;
	my $g = 0;
	my $occ_sig_header = "";

	##Index also de TFm tf will be included on the list if it was not done before
	#push (@query_genes,$tf) if ($main::tf && !$main::filter && !$main::all_genes);

	## Sort query genes according to user-selected criterion
	my @sorted_genes = ();

	if (($sort_criterion eq "sig") && (scalar (keys %top_sig) > 1 )) {
	    &RSAT::message::Info("Sorting genes by ",$sort_criterion," for Matrix-wise synthesis report table and html") if ($main::verbose >=3);
	    @sorted_genes = sort {$top_sig{$b} <=> $top_sig{$a}} (keys %top_sig);

	  #  join ("\t", (sort {$top_sig{$b} <=> $top_sig{$a}} @query_genes));
	} elsif ($sort_criterion eq "alpha") {
	  @sorted_genes = sort @query_genes;
	} else {
	  @sorted_genes = @query_genes;

	}


	foreach my $gene (@sorted_genes) {
	  $g++;
	  next unless($top_sig{$gene}); ## Only report genes that passed the p-value and occurrence significance threshold

#	  my $gene_info= `(add-gene-info -i $gene_list{$gene} -org $organism_name -info name,descr,upstr_neighb_name | grep -v "^;")`;
#	  chomp ($gene_info);
#	  $gene_info=~s/Escherichia_coli_K12//;
#	  my @gene_info=split(/\t+/,$gene_info);
#	  shift @gene_info;
	  #shift @gene_info;

	  ## Array containing the fields for the query gene
	  ## If the field of gene information is not available is substituted by NA
	  my $feature = $organism->get_feature_for_name($gene);
	  my @gene_info = ();
	  foreach my $field (@info_fields) {
	    my $value = $feature->get_attribute($field);

	    ################################################################
	    ################################################################
	    ################################################################
	    #### NEEDS TO BE DEBUGGED: WE DON'T GET THE NEIGHBOUR NAME  ####
	    ################################################################
	    ################################################################
	    ################################################################

	    &RSAT::message::Debug($gene, $feature->get_attribute("id"), $value||"NA") if ($main::verbose >= 0);
	    push @gene_info, $value||"NA";
	  }

	  my $gene_info_line=join ("\t",@gene_info); #### Line containing the information about the current gene for the table
	  my $gene_info_html_line=join ("</td>\n<td>",@gene_info);
	  $gene_info_html_line="<td>".$gene_info_html_line."</td>"; #### Line containing the information about the current gene for the tablhtml index


	  ################################################################
	  ## HTML table with data + figures

	  ## Grep the header of one of the query genes to use it in the matrix-wise reports: tab-delmited table and HTML file
	  unless ($occ_sig_header){
	    &MatrixReportHeader($synthesis_index, $synthesis_table,$occ_sig_file{$gene});
	    $occ_sig_header=1;
	  }

	  ### Get the information related to the most significant score per query gene. This information is the first line of the
	  ## the occ_sig.tab file
	  my $gene_sig=$top_sig_row{$gene}; # Query gene significance

	  ################
	  ## Print gene info and results in the text tab delimited table
	  #my @gene_table_fields=$gene, $gene_sig, $g,$gene_info_line,  $occ_sig_file{$gene} ;  #the rank ($g) makes no sense if the $sort_creteria is alphabthic
	  my @gene_table_fields=($gene, $gene_sig,$values_at_th{$gene}, $gene_info_line,  $occ_sig_file{$gene}) ;
	  print  $synthesis_table join("\t",@gene_table_fields  ). "\n";

	  ################
	  ## Print query gene information and result in the Matrix-wise HTML report
	  my $html_sep="<\/td>\n<td>";

	  $gene_sig =~ s/\t+/$html_sep/g; # substitute the tab separator used for the table by the html table separator
	  $gene_values_at_th=$values_at_th{$gene};
	  $gene_values_at_th=~s/\t+/$html_sep/g;

	  print $synthesis_index "<tr>\n"; #initialize line

	  #Gene (link to query index) and columns with information about ocurrence
	  $file=$query_indexes{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
	  print $synthesis_index "<td>"."<a href='", $file, "'>".$gene."</a>";
	  print $synthesis_index $html_sep. $gene_sig."</td>";
	  print $synthesis_index $html_sep. $gene_values_at_th."</td>";

	  ################
	  ## Add figures and links to figures and results tables
	  my $links = "";

	  ## Link to significance file
	  if ((defined($occ_sig_file{$gene})) && (-e $occ_sig_file{$gene})) {
	    my $file = $occ_sig_file{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
	    print $synthesis_index  "<td>".  join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[sig]</a>") ." </td>"."\n";
	  }
	  # else {
# 	      my $file = $occ_sig_file{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
# 	      print $synthesis_index  "<td>". "<FONT COLOR=\"red\">". join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[sig]</a>") ."</FONT>"." </td>"."\n";
# 	  }
	  ## Link and display to  significance graph
	  if ((defined($occ_sig_graph_file{$gene})) && (-e $occ_sig_graph_file{$gene})) {
	    my $file = $occ_sig_graph_file{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
	    print $synthesis_index  "<td>".join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>","<img  src='",$file,"'height='",$img_hight,"'></a>")." </p>";
	    print $synthesis_index   join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[sigplot]</a>")." </td>"."\n";
	  }

	  ## Link and Display  frequency plot
	  if ((defined($occ_freq_graph_file{$gene})) && (-e $occ_freq_graph_file{$gene})) {
	    my $file = $occ_freq_graph_file{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
	    print $synthesis_index  "<td>".join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>",,"<img  src='",$file,"'height='",$img_hight,"'></a>")." </p>";
	    print $synthesis_index   join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[freqplot]</a>")." </td>"."\n";
	  }

	  ## Link to feature map
	  if ((defined($map_file{$gene})) && (-e $map_file{$gene})) {
	    my $file = $map_file{$gene}; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
	    print $synthesis_index "<td>".join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[map]</a>")."</td>"."\n";
	  }
	  print $synthesis_index   $gene_info_html_line;
	  #	&RSAT::message::Debug("SYNTHESIS DIR", $syn_dir, $sig_file, $links) if ($main::verbose >= 10);

	  print $synthesis_index "</tr>\n"; #finish line
	}
      }
    } else {
	local $current_gene="all_query_genes";
	&RunFootprintScan(@query_genes);
    }

    ################################################################
    ## Close output stream.
    my $exec_time = &RSAT::util::ReportExecutionTime($start_time);
    print $main::out $exec_time if ($main::verbose >= 1);
    close $main::out if ($main::outfile{output});
    if ($task{synthesis}) {
      print $synthesis_index "</table>\n";
      print $synthesis_index "<p><pre>", $exec_time, "</pre></p>\n";
      print $synthesis_index "</body>\n";
      print $synthesis_index "</html>\n";
      close ($synthesis_index);
       &RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis table for matrix ",  $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"} ) if ($main::verbose >= 1);
       &RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis html table for matrix ",  $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"} ) if ($main::verbose >= 1);
    }

    ################################################################
    ## Report the index files (not necessary anymore since they were
    ## displayed after each query).
    if ($main::verbose >= 5) {
      print ("; Index files\n");
      foreach my $key (sort keys %index_report_per_query) {
	print join ("\t", ";", $key, $index_report_per_query{$key}), "\n";
      }
    }

    ################################################################
    ## Print information for each matrix in the Matrices Report.
    if ($task{synthesis}){
    	&AddOneMatrixToMatricesReport($m_suffix,$matrix_file,$matrix_format,$outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"},($tf||0),$matrices_synthesis_index,$matrices_synthesis_table );
    }
    	##Get the actual tf form the list before procesing the next tf
    #pop (@query_genes) if  ($main::tf && !$main::filter && !$main::all_genes);;

  }				## close matrices cycle

  ################################################################
  ## Close the general report for all matrices
  &CloseMatricesReport() if $task{synthesis};

  ################################################################
  ## Print verbose
  # &Verbose() if ($main::verbose);
  exit(0);
}

################################################################
################### SUBROUTINE DEFINITION ######################
################################################################


################################################################
## Display full help message
sub PrintHelp {
#    system "pod2text -c $0";
    system "cat $0 $ENV{RSAT}/perl-scripts/lib/footprint.lib.pl | pod2text -c";
    exit()
}

################################################################
## Display short help message
sub PrintOptions {
    &PrintHelp();
}

################################################################
## Read arguments
sub ReadArguments {
    local $arg;
    local @arguments = @ARGV; ## create a copy to shift, because we need ARGV to report command line in &Verbose()
    while (scalar(@arguments) >= 1) {
	$arg = shift (@arguments);

=pod

=head1 OPTIONS

=cut

	## Read the options that are common to all footprint-detection programs
	if (&ReadFootprintOptions()) {
	    next;

=pod

=over 4

=item B<-m matrix_file>

Matrix file. This argument is mandatory.

This argument can be used iteratively to scan the sequence with
multiple matrices.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-m") {
	  my $new_matrix_file = shift(@arguments);
	  if (-e $new_matrix_file) {
	    push @matrix_files, $new_matrix_file;
	  } else {
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Non-existing matrix file (option -m)", $new_matrix_file);
	  }

=pod

=item B<-matrix_format matrix_format>

Matrix format. Default is tab. This argument is mandatory.

=cut

	} elsif ($arg eq "-matrix_format") {
	    $main::matrix_format = lc(shift(@arguments));

=pod

=item B<-matrix_suffix matrix_suffix>

Matrix suffix. This argument is mandatory.

The matrix suffix indicates the nature of the matrix file. For
example, if your matrix file contains a single matrix for a
transcription factor (say LexA), you can indicate it with

-matrix_suffix LexA

whereas if your matrix files contains all the matrices from the
RegulonDB database, you can specify

-matrix_suffix RegulonDB

The matrix suffix will be concatenated to the output prefix, in order
to maintain separate output files for distinct analyses performed on
the same promoter sequences. For example, if you run successively the
analysis with the matrix LexA, and then with the matrix CRP, you don't
want to loose the results of the first scanning when running the
second scanning.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-matrix_suffix") {
	    $main::matrix_suffix = shift(@arguments);
=pod

=item B<-tf transcription_factor>

Most matrices are derived from specific TFBS, so they represent the preferential sequence where a TF binds.
This option will search for all the genomes in the given taxon where there is an ortholog for the specified tf.
Orthologs for the query genes will only be retrived if the organism has an ortholog for the TF.

-tf gene_name

If the option -matrix_table is used instead of the name of an specific TF specify the names are in the file using:

-tf file

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-tf") {
	    $main::tf = shift(@arguments);
=pod

=item B<-pseudo #>

Pseudo-count for the matrix (default: 1). See matrix-scan for details.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-pseudo") {
	    $main::pseudo = shift(@arguments);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError(join("\t", $main::pseudo,
					  "Invalid value for pseudo count. Must be a real value."))
		unless (&IsReal($main::pseudo));

=pod

=item B<-bgfile background_file>

Background model file.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-bgfile") {
	    $main::infile{bg} = shift(@arguments);
	    $main::bg_method="infile_bg";
=pod

=item B<-bg_format background_format>

Format of background model file.
For supported formats see: convert-background-model -h

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-bg_format") {
	    $main::bg_format = shift(@arguments);

=pod

=item B<-bginput>

Calculate background model from the input sequence set.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-bginput") {
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Options -bgfile and -bginput  are mutually exclusive") if (defined($infile{bg}));
	    $main::bg_method = "input";
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("The options -bginput and -bgfile are mutually exclusive.")
		if defined($main::infile{bg});

=pod

=item B<-markov>

Order of the markov chain for the background model.

This option is incompatible with the option -bgfile.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-markov") {
	    $main::markov = shift(@arguments);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Markov order must be a natural number.")
		unless &RSAT::util::IsNatural($main::markov);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("The options -markov and -bgfile are mutually exclusive.")
		if defined($infile{bg});
=pod


=item B<-window>

Size of the sliding window for the background model calculation.
When this option is specified, the matrix pseudo-count is equally
distributed.

The background model is calculated locally at each step of the scan,
by computing transition frequencies from a sliding window centred
around the considered segment. The model is thus updated at each
scanned position. This model is called "adaptive". Note that the
sliding window must be large enough to train the local Markov model.
The required sequence length increases exponentially with the Markov
order. This option is thus usually suitable for low order models
only (-markov 0 to 1).

This option is incompatible with the option -bgfile.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-window") {
            &RSAT::error::FatalError("Options -bgfile and -window  are mutually exclusive") if (defined($infile{bg}));
            &RSAT::error::FatalError("Options -bginput and -window  are mutually exclusive") if ($main::bg_method eq "input");
	    $main::bg_method = "window";
            $main::window_size = shift(@arguments);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Window size must be a natural number.") unless &RSAT::util::IsNatural($main::window_size);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("The options -window and -bgfile are mutually exclusive.") if (defined($infile{bg}));

	    # ahcorcha
=pod

=item B<-tree>
Phylogenetic tree use for the Bayesian Branch Length Scoring task, 
it should be in Newick format with distances and leaf names.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-tree") {
	    $main::tree = shift(@arguments);
	    
=pod

=item B<-bbls_draw>
Fomat for the output image. Represents the phylogenetic tree of organisms
with ortholog genes. Shows the conservation of the motif across the tree
over the p-value. The default value is png (png, pdf or none).

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-bbls_draw") {
	    $main::bbls_draw = shift(@arguments);	    
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError("The option -bbls_draw takes pdf, png or none (no output).") if !( ($main::bbls_draw eq "png") || ($main::bbls_draw eq "pdf") || ($main::bbls_draw eq "none") );
	    #/ahcorcha	    
=pod

=item B<-bg_pseudo #>

Pseudo frequency for the background model. Value must be a real
between 0 and 1.

If this option is not specified, the pseudo-frequency value depends on
the background calculation.

For -bginput and -window, the pseudo frequency is automatically
calculated from the length (L) of the sequence following this formula:

sqrt(L)/(L+sqrt(L))

For -bgfile, default value is 0.05.

In other cases, if the length (L) of the training sequence is known
(e.g. all promoters for the considered organism), the value can be set
manually by using the option -bg_pseudo. In such case, the background
pseudo-frequency might be set, as suggested by Thijs et al., to the
following value:

sqrt(L)/(L+sqrt(L))


=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-bg_pseudo") {
	    $main::bg_pseudo = shift(@arguments);
	    &RSAT::error::FatalError(join("\t", $main::bg_pseudo,
					  "Invalid format for bg_pseudo, should be a Real number between 0 and 1."))
		unless ((&IsReal($main::bg_pseudo)) && (0 <= $main::bg_pseudo) && ($main::bg_pseudo <= 1));


=pod

=item B<-filter>

Filter TF-interactions that are not present on the query organism.
The option -filter_pval can be used to set the threshold for the detected sites.


=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-filter") {
	    $main::filter = 1;
=pod

=item B<-filter_bgfile>

Background model file for the scanning of query sequences for filtering,.



=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-filter_bgfile") {
    	    $main::filter_bgfile= shift(@arguments);


=pod

=item B<-filter_pval>

Set the threshold to filter out TF-interactions that are not present on the query organism.



=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-filter_pval") {
    	    $main::filter_pval= shift(@arguments);

	     &RSAT::error::FatalError($main::filter_pval, "Invalid value for filter_pval. Should be a real number. ")
	unless (&RSAT::util::IsReal($main::filter_pval));

=pod

=item B<-pval>

Set the threshold on site p-value to report only the evaluated over-representations of binding sites whenever the individual sites crossed it.
The default is set to 1e-4.

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-pval") {
    	    $main::pval= shift(@arguments);

	     &RSAT::error::FatalError($main::pval, "Invalid value for pval. Should be a real number. ")
	unless (&RSAT::util::IsReal($main::pval));
=pod

=item B<-occ_th>

Threshold set on the occurrence significance (over-representation) for scores that have p-value equal or smaller thant the one given as threshold in the option I<-pval>.

All genes are completely analyzed, only the genes that pass both threshold on pvalue and occ_sig will be included on the synthesis table and html of the matrix.

Default is set to 5 .

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-occ_th") {
    	    $main::occ_th= shift(@arguments);

	     &RSAT::error::FatalError($main::occ_th, "Invalid value for pval. Should be a real number. ")
	unless (&RSAT::util::IsReal($main::occ_th));

=pod

=item B<-occ_sig_opt>

Additional options passed to matrix-scan for the test of
over-representation of matrix hits.

Supported threshold fields for the matches : score pval eval sig normw
proba_M proba_B rank crer_sites crer_size

Supported threshold fields for score distributions: occ occ_sum
inv_cum exp_occ occ_pval occ_eval occ_sig occ_sig_rank

Examples:
 To return only the "best" score for each gene
-occ_sig_opt '-uth rank 1'

To analyze the distribution only above a weight threshold of 7.
 -occ_sig_opt '-lth score 7'

To analyze the distribution for sites having a P-value threshold of
1e-3.
-occ_sig_opt '-uth pval 1e-3'

Note: the argument passed to matrix-scan is delimited by single
quotes, and can thus not contain any quote.

=cut

    } elsif ($arg eq "-occ_sig_opt") {
    my $new_occ_sig_opt = shift(@arguments);
    $occ_sig_opt .= " ".$new_occ_sig_opt;
    my $th_field = (split(/ +/,$new_occ_sig_opt ))[1];
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Field +$th_field+ is not a supported threshold field for matrix-scan.")  unless ($main::supported_threshold{$th_field}) ;

=pod

=item B<-info_lines>

Draw reference lines on the significance profile plots, to highlight
some particular values.

- horizontal axis (Y=0), in violet

- vertical axis (X=0), in violet

- the weight value associated with maximal significance
  (only weights >=0 are considered), in red

=cut
	} elsif ($arg eq "-info_lines") {
    $main::draw_info_lines=1;
    &RSAT::message::Info("Informative lines for ocurrence significance graph will be drawn ") if ($main::verbose >= 3);

=pod

=item B<-occ_sig_graph_opt>

Additional options passed to XYgraph for drawing the
occurrence significance graph.

Note: the argument passed to XYgraph is delimited by single quotes,
and can thus not contain any quote.

=cut

    } elsif ($arg eq "-occ_sig_graph_opt") {
    my $new_occ_sig_graph_opt = shift(@arguments);
    $occ_sig_graph_opt .= " ".$new_occ_sig_graph_opt;
    my $th_graph_field = (split(/ +/, $new_occ_sig_graph_opt ))[0];
    &RSAT::error::FatalError(join", " ,$th_graph_field, "is not a supported threshold field for XYgraph.")   unless (  $main::supported_graph_threshold{$th_graph_field} );

=pod

=item B<-plot_format>

Format for the occurrence plots (occurrence frequencies, occurrence sinificance).
Supported: all formats supported by the program XYgraph

=cut

    } elsif ($arg eq "-plot_format") {
    $main::plot_format = shift(@arguments);

=pod

=item B<-scan_opt>

Additional options passed to matrix-scan for site detection and
feature-map drawing.

Examples:

Scan sequences with an upper threshold of 0.001 on pval.
-scan_opt '-uth pval 0.001'

Note: the argument passed to matrix-scan is delimited by single
quotes, and can thus not contain any quote.

Default: By default sites are filtered with a threshodl on p-value on 1e-4

=cut

    } elsif ($arg eq "-scan_opt") {
    my $new_scan_opt = shift(@arguments);
    $scan_opt .= " ".$new_scan_opt;

=pod

=item B<-map_opt>

Additional options passed to feature-map for feature-map drawing.

Examples:

Change the thickness of the maps
-map_opt '-mapthick 12'

Write the weight score above each site (also activate the auto
adjustment of map thickness to ensure there is enough space for drawing the
labels).
-map_opt  '-label score -mapthick auto'

Note: the argument passed to feature-map is delimited by single
quotes, and can thus not contain any quote.

Default= " -mlen 300  -mspacing  2"

=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-map_opt") {
    my $new_map_opt = shift(@arguments);

$map_opt .= " ".$new_map_opt;

=pod

=item B<-rand>

When the option -rand is activated, the program replaces each
ortholog by a gene selected at random in the genome where this
ortholg was found.

This option is used (for example by footprint-scan and
footprint-discovery to perform negative controls, i.e. check the
rate of false positives in randomly selected promoters of the
reference taxon.


=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-rand") {
    $main::rand = 1;

=pod

=item B<-matrix_table matrix_table_file.tab>

A table providing the paths to matrix files (one file per row) +
optional columns to specify parameters (factor name, format) for
each martrix.

The matrix list is provided as a tab-delimited text file, where each
row specifies one matrix.

- The first column indicates the path to a file containing a single
  matrix (in the format specified with -matrix_format).

- The second column (optional) indicates a common name for the matrix
  (e.g. transcription factor name) which will be displayed in the
  synthetic report tables. If the option 'I<-tf file>' is used, this column
  must indicate the name of the transcription factor on which the
  taxonomic filter will be applied (i.e. the analysis will only be led
  in species of the taxon where an ortholog has been found for the
  factor).

- The third column (optional) indicates the format of each matrix, in
  case the search would be done with matrices obtained from different
  sources (e.g. TRANSFAC, consensus, meme). Note that if the file
  contains a third column, the option -matrix_format cannot be used.

=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-matrix_table") {
     $main::matrix_table_file = shift(@arguments);



=pod

=item B<-batch_matrix >

Generate one footprint-scan command per matrix and post it on the queue of a PC
cluster.

=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-batch_matrix") {
    $main::batch_matrix = 1;
    &RSAT::message::Info("One indepent footprint-scan job will be sent to the cluster with the same query genes") ;

=pod

=item B<-skip_m  #>

Skip the first # matrices in the matrix_table (useful for quick testing and for resuming
interrupted tasks when using a matrix_table or when several matrices are entered with the option -m ).

=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-skip_m") {
    $main::skip_m = shift(@arguments);
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Invalid number with option -skip\t$skip") unless &IsNatural($skip);

=pod

=item B<-last_m #>

Stop after having treated the first # matrices in the matrix table (useful for quick
testing when using a matrix_table or when several matrices are entered with the option -m ).

=cut

  } elsif ($arg eq "-last_m") {
    $main::last_m = shift(@arguments);
    &RSAT::error::FatalError("Invalid number with option -last\t$last") unless &IsNatural($last);

  } else {
    &FatalError(join("\t", "Invalid option", $arg));
}
    }


}

################################################################
## Verbose message
sub Verbose {
    print $main::out "; footprint-scan ";
    &PrintArguments($main::out);
    printf $main::out "; %-22s\t%s\n", "Program version", $program_version;
    if (%main::infile) {
	print $main::out "; Input files\n";
	while (my ($key,$value) = each %main::infile) {
	    printf $main::out ";\t%-13s\t%s\n", $key, $value;
	}
    }
    if (%main::outfile) {
	print $main::out "; Output files\n";
	while (my ($key,$value) = each %main::outfile) {
	    printf $main::out ";\t%-13s\t%s\n", $key, $value;
	}
    }
}



################################################################
## Run footprint scan flow chart for one or several query genes
sub RunFootprintScan {
  local (@current_query_genes) = @_;
  local $query_start_time = &AlphaDate();
  local $batch_cmd = "";
  local $out = "";
  local $genes = "";

  ################################################################
  ## Initialize output directory + output files
  local ($outfile_prefix, $query_prefix)= &InitQueryOutput();

  ## Output files for matrix-scan
  $outfile{filter_scan} = $outfile{prefix}."_filter_scan.tab";
  $outfile{matrix_prefix} = $outfile{prefix}."_".$m_suffix;
  $outfile{bg_distrib} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_bginput_oligo_l".($markov+1).".freq" if  (($bg_method eq "input" )||($bg_method eq "window") ) ;
  $outfile{matrix_distrib} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_matrix-distrib_occsig.tab" if  (($bg_method eq "input" )||($bg_method eq "window") ) ;
  $outfile{occ_sig} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_sig.tab";
  $outfile{occ_freq_graph} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_freq.".$plot_format;
  $outfile{occ_sig_graph} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_sig.".$plot_format;
  $outfile{sites} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_sites.tab";
  $outfile{map} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_sites.".$map_format;

  ################################################################
  ## Open file to the HTML index for the current query
  &OpenQueryReport("footprint-scan");

  ################################################################
  ## Print query genes in the gene file
  foreach my $gene (@current_query_genes) {
    print $genes $gene, "\t", $organism_name, "\n";
  }
  close $genes;
  &IndexOneFile("genes", $outfile{genes});


  ## Predict operon leader genes of the query genes
  &InferQueryOperons() if ($infer_operons);

  &RetrieveQueryPromoters();
  
  ## Retrieve promoters of the query organism
  if ($main::filter) {
   # &ComputeFilterScan($matrix_format,@matrix_files);
   &ComputeFilterScan($matrix_format,$matrix_file);
  }

  ################################################################
  ## Print verbose
  &Verbose() if ($verbose);

  if ($main::filter && $main::skip_gene) {
    &RSAT::message::Info("Skipping: no site for matrix", $m_suffix, "in query promoter(s)", join(";",@current_query_genes)) if ($main::verbose >= 0);
    return;
  }

  ################################################################
  ## Identify ortholog genes
  &GetOrthologs();

  ################################################################
  ## Predict operon leader genes for the orthologous genes
  &InferOrthoOperons() if ($infer_operons);

  ################################################################
  ## Retrieve sequences from orthologs
  &RetrieveOrthoSeq();

  ################################################################
  ## Purge sequences
  &PurgeOrthoSeq() unless  ($main::no_purge) ;

  ################################################################
  ## Scan the promoters of one group of orhtologous genes with one
  ## position-specific scoring matrix

  ## Estimate over-representation in hits for all threshold values
  &OccurrenceSig();
  ## Evaluate if the gene occurrence significance in the given p-value can pass the threshold for selecting conserved interactions based on overrepresentation

  &OccurrenceSigGraph();
  #&GetTopSig() if (($task{synthesis}) && !($batch)); ## With the Select_interaction
                                                          ## subrutine this one is no longer necesary

  ## Scan sequences to detect hits
  &OrthoScan();
  &OrthoMap();


  ################################################################
  ## ahcorcha
  &BayesianScore();
  #################################################################################################
  
  if ($task{synthesis} && !($batch)){
    ## $selected_interaction = &Select_interaction(); ## Modified by JvH on 2015-03-09: $selected_interaction was not used anywhere, and &Select_interaction() has no return value
      &Select_interaction();

      ## Index occ sig files for the synthetic table
      $occ_sig_file{$current_gene} = $outfile{occ_sig} if (-e $outfile{occ_sig} );
      $occ_freq_graph_file{$current_gene} = $outfile{occ_freq_graph} if (-e $outfile{occ_freq_graph});
      $occ_sig_graph_file{$current_gene} = $outfile{occ_sig_graph} if (-e $outfile{occ_sig_graph});
      $gene_list{$current_gene} = $outfile{genes} if (-e $outfile{genes} );

      ## Index scan files for the synthetic table
      $map_file{$current_gene} = $outfile{map} if (-e $outfile{map});
  }


  ################################################################
  ## Finish verbose
  if ($verbose >= 1) {
    my $query_done_time = &AlphaDate();
    my $query_exec_time = &RSAT::util::ReportExecutionTime($query_start_time);
    print $out "; Job started $query_start_time\n";
    print $out "; Job done    $query_done_time\n";
    print $out "; Elapsed     $query_exec_time\n";
  }

  ################################################################
  ## Close output stream
  close $out if ($outfile{log});
  close $genes if ($outfile{genes});
  print $index "</table>\n";
  print $index "<hr size=2 color='#000088'>";
  print $index "</body>";
  print $index "</html>";
  close $index;

  ################################################################
  ## Send the command to a batch queue (e.g. PC cluster)
  if ($batch) {
    &doit($batch_cmd, $dry, $die_on_error, $verbose, 1, $job_prefix);
  } else {
    if ($main::verbose >= 3) {
      &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Query done", $query_prefix);
      &RSAT::message::Info("\tlog file", $outfile{log});
      &RSAT::message::Info("\treport file", $outfile{index});
    }
  }

}


################################################################
## Get Orthologs for the TF this gene is not longer analized completly
## by default, only the query seq and the orthologs are obtained.

sub GetOrthologsTF {
  local (@current_query_genes) = @_;

  local $query_start_time = &AlphaDate();
  local $batch_cmd = "";
  local $out = "";
  local $genes = "";


  ################################################################
   ## Initialize output directory + output files
  local ($outfile_prefix, $query_prefix)= &InitQueryOutput();

  ## Output files for matrix-scan
  $outfile{filter_scan} = $outfile{prefix}."_filter_scan.tab";
  $outfile{matrix_prefix} = $outfile{prefix}."_".$m_suffix;
 #  $outfile{occ_sig} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_sig.tab";
#   $outfile{occ_freq_graph} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_freq.".$plot_format;
#   $outfile{occ_sig_graph} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_occ_sig.".$plot_format;
#   $outfile{sites} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_sites.tab";
#   $outfile{map} = $outfile{matrix_prefix}."_sites.".$map_format;

  ################################################################
  ## Open file to the HTML index for the current query
  &OpenQueryReport("footprint-scan");

  ################################################################
  ## Print query genes in the gene file
  foreach my $gene (@current_query_genes) {
    print $genes $gene, "\t", $organism_name, "\n";
  }
  close $genes;
  &IndexOneFile("genes", $outfile{genes});
  $inferoperons_original=$infer_operons; # for the sake of getting the orthologs of TFs we don't need to infer operons
  $infer_operons=0;

  &RetrieveQueryPromoters();

    ################################################################
  ## Print verbose
  &Verbose() if ($verbose);


  ################################################################
  ## Identify ortholog genes
  if ($task{orthologs_tf}){
      &RSAT::message::Info("Recovering the ortholgoous genes for the TF ", $tf) if ($main::verbose>=2);
      $task_ortho_original=$task{orthologs};
      $task{orthologs}=1;
      &GetOrthologs() ;
      $task{orthologs}=$task_ortho_original;
  }
  ## only for the $tf option
  if ( !($main::tf_ortho_file) ) {
      $main::tf_ortho_file=$outfile{prefix}."_ortho_bbh_tf.tab";
      $org_column =qq@grep -v "#" $outfile{orthologs} |grep -v ";"| cut -f2 >$main::tf_ortho_file @;
      system ($org_column);
      &RSAT::message::Info("List of organisms with an ortholog for the corresponding TF ", "$main::tf_ortho_file ")
	  if ($main::verbose>=1);
  }


  ################################################################
  ## Finish verbose
  if ($verbose >= 1) {
    my $query_done_time = &AlphaDate();
    my $query_exec_time = &RSAT::util::ReportExecutionTime($query_start_time);
    print $out "; Job started $query_start_time\n";
    print $out "; Job done    $query_done_time\n";
    print $out "; Elapsed     $query_exec_time\n";
  }

  ################################################################
  ## Close output stream
  close $out if ($outfile{log});
  close $genes if ($outfile{genes});
  print $index "</table>\n";
  print $index "<hr size=2 color='#000088'>";
  print $index "</body>";
  print $index "</html>";
  close $index;

  ################################################################
  ## Send the command to a batch queue (e.g. PC cluster)
  if ($batch) {
    &doit($batch_cmd, $dry, $die_on_error, $verbose, 1, $job_prefix);
  } else {
    if ($main::verbose >= 3) {
      &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Query done", $query_prefix);
      &RSAT::message::Info("\tlog file", $outfile{log});
      &RSAT::message::Info("\treport file", $outfile{index});
    }
  }
  $infer_operons= $inferoperons_original; ## recovver original value for infering operons for the query genes
}

################################################################
## Matrix-wise index for footprint-scan. This is a HTML table with
## links to the query-specific results: one row per query, one column
## per output type.
sub OpenSynthesisPerMatrix {
  $dir{synthesis} = join( "/",$dir{output_root}, $org_selection_prefix, $organism_name,$m_suffix);
  &RSAT::util::CheckOutDir($dir{synthesis});
  $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"} = join( "/",$dir{synthesis},"synthesis_per_matrix");
  $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"} = $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"}.".tab";
  $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_all"} = $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"}."_all.tab";
  $outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"} = $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"}.".html";


  my $synthesis_index = &OpenOutputFile($outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_html"});
  my $synthesis_table = &OpenOutputFile($outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_tab"});
  my $synthesis_all_table = &OpenOutputFile($outfile{$m_suffix."_synthesis_all"});


  &RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis per matrix", $prefix{$m_suffix."_synthesis"});
  return ($synthesis_index, $synthesis_table, $synthesis_all_table)  ;
}


################################################################
## Write the header of the HTML matrix report
## takes the header of one of the occ_sig tables
## adds some fields that will be included regarding the information
## of the genes
## The table contains the same information as the html, but the html displays also the figures.

sub MatrixReportHeader {

    ################
    #Grep header from occ_sig file
    ($synthesis_index, $synthesis_table, $occ_one_gene_file) =@_;

    &RSAT::message::TimeWarn("Initializing results report for matrix",$m_suffix) if ($main::verbose >= 5);
    $occ_sig_header = `grep '^#' $occ_one_gene_file`;
    chomp $occ_sig_header;
    
    my @header_occ_gene=split(/\t/,$occ_sig_header);
    pop (@header_occ_gene); ## Last element is the internal ranking of the occ_sig and is one for all the genes

    # $occ_sig_header =~ s/occ_sig_rank//;
    # $occ_sig_header =~ s/^#//;
    #$occ_sig_header =~ s/occ_sig_rank/gene_rank/; #the rank makes no sense if the $sort_creteria is alphabthic
    @header_values_at_th=("weight_at_th","occ_at_th","exp_at_th","sig_at_th");
    #Write header for the table
    print $synthesis_table join("\t", "#gene",@header_occ_gene, @header_values_at_th,@info_fields,"file"), "\n";
    
    
    ################
    ## Initiatie the Html file
    
    ##Title includes information about the parameters used in the program
    print $synthesis_index "<html>\n";
    my $html_title = "footprint-scan";
    $html_title .= " ".$taxon if ($taxon);
    $html_title .= " ".$organism_name if ($organism_name);
    $html_title .= " ".$bg_model if ($bg_model);
    $html_title .= " ".$m_suffix ;

    ## Write style and title
    print $synthesis_index "<head><title>", $html_title , "</title>";
    print $synthesis_index &sorttable_script();
    print $synthesis_index "<style type='text/css'>\n";
    print $synthesis_index  `cat $ENV{RSAT}/perl-scripts/lib/results.css`;
    print $synthesis_index  "</style>\n";
    print $synthesis_index "</head>\n";
    print $synthesis_index "<body>\n";
    print $synthesis_index "<h1>". $html_title ."</h1\n";
    print $synthesis_index "<p><b>Command:</b> footprint-scan";
    print $synthesis_index &PrintArguments();
    print $synthesis_index "</p>\n";

    ## Open the html table
    print $synthesis_index "<p><table class='sortable whitebg' border='0' cellpadding='3' cellspacing='0'>\n";
    print $synthesis_index "<tr>\n";
     my $html_sep="<\/th>\n<th>";
    $occ_sig_header=~s/\t/$html_sep/g;

    #Creat the header for the html matrix-wise report
    my $header_index=join("</th>\n<th>", "<th>gene", @header_occ_gene,@header_values_at_th, "OCC_Sig", "SigPlot" ,"FreqPlot","Map","bbls score", "bbls tree", @info_fields)."</th>";
    $header_index .= "\n";
    print $synthesis_index $header_index;
    print $synthesis_index "</tr>\n";
}

################################################################
##Open report for matrices

sub OpenMatricesReport{

    ################
    ## Check Dir and open html and synthesis table
    $dir{matrices_synthesis} = join( "/",$dir{output_root}, $org_selection_prefix, $organism_name);
    &RSAT::util::CheckOutDir($dir{matrices_synthesis});
    $prefix{"all_matrices_synthesis"} = join( "/",$dir{matrices_synthesis},"all_matrices_report");
    $outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_tab"} =  $prefix{"all_matrices_synthesis"}.".tab";
    $outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_html"} =  $prefix{"all_matrices_synthesis"}.".html";
    &RSAT::message::Info("Synthesis text and html table for all matrices",  $prefix{"all_matrices_synthesis"} )if ($main::verbose>=1) ;

    ##Open files
    $matrices_synthesis_index = &OpenOutputFile($outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_html"}) ;
    $matrices_synthesis_table = &OpenOutputFile($outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_tab"}  );

    ################
    ## Write header for Matrices Report table
    my @header_matrices =qw (matrix_id matrix_name);
    push(@header_matrices,"TFname") if ($main::tf);
    my @header_tab_matrices =(@header_matrices,"IUPAC","num_regulated_genes","report");
    my @header_html_matrices =(@header_matrices,"report","IUPAC","num_regulated_genes");


    print $matrices_synthesis_table join("\t",@header_tab_matrices), "\n";

    ################
    ## Header and Style for HTML matrices report
    ##Title includes information about the parameters used in the program
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<html>\n";
    my $html_title = "footprint-scan";
    $html_title .= " ".$taxon if ($taxon);
    $html_title .= " ".$organism_name if ($organism_name);
    $html_title .= " ".$bg_model if ($bg_model);
    $html_title .= " -  Matrices Report " ;

    ## Write style and title
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<head><title>", $html_title , "</title>";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index &sorttable_script();
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<style type='text/css'>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index  `cat $ENV{RSAT}/perl-scripts/lib/results.css`;
    print $matrices_synthesis_index  "</style>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "</head>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<body>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<h1>". $html_title ."</h1\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<p><b>Command:</b> footprint-scan";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index &PrintArguments();
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "</p>\n";

    ## Open the html table
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<p><table class='sortable whitebg' border='0' cellpadding='3' cellspacing='0'>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "<tr>\n";
    my $html_sep="<\/th>\n<th>";
    my $header_index="<th>".join($html_sep,@header_html_matrices)."</th>";
    $header_index .= "\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index $header_index;
    print $matrices_synthesis_index "</tr>\n";
    return($matrices_synthesis_index,$matrices_synthesis_table);
}


################################################################
## Add one matrix to the synthetic report
sub AddOneMatrixToMatricesReport{
  my ($msuf,$m_file,$m_format,$m_report,$m_tf,$matrices_synthesis_index,$matrices_synthesis_table)=@_; # Matrix suffix,file,format,report and tf if is the case
  &RSAT::message::Info("Adding information for matrix", $msuf, " to the matrices report " ) if ($main::verbose >= 1);

  my $num_reg_genes= scalar(keys %top_sig);

  @motifs = &RSAT::MatrixReader::readFromFile($m_file, $m_format);

  my $motif_nb = scalar(@motifs);

  &RSAT::message::Info("Reading information for matrix  ", $msuf , "Matrices in file", $msuf) if ($main::verbose >= 1);

  my $matrix =shift(@motifs) ;
  my $motif_id = $matrix->get_attribute("id");
  ## We compute the consensus and logos here with the same background model as used for sequence scanning
  $matrix->calcConsensus();
  my $consensus = $matrix->get_attribute("consensus.IUPAC");
  my $colored_consensus = &RSAT::SeqUtil::ColorConsensus($consensus, bold=>1, iupac=>$main::param{iupac_coloring});
  #  my $consensus_for_html=  "<span class='menulink'><a href='#discovered_motifs_".$mot."'>Motif ".$mot."</a></span>: <a href='".$link."'>[matrix]</a> ".$colored_consensus."<br/> ";
  my $motif_name = $matrix->get_attribute("name");

  ################
  ## Print information in the tab delimited table
  if ($m_tf) {
    print  $matrices_synthesis_table join("\t",$msuf,$m_tf,$consensus,$num_reg_genes,$m_report)."\n";
  } else {
    print  $matrices_synthesis_table join("\t",$msuf,$motif_id,$consensus,$num_reg_genes,$m_report)."\n";
  }

  ################
  ## Prepare links for the html index
  my $syn_dir = `dirname $m_report`;
  chomp($syn_dir);
  my $file = $m_report; $file =~ s|${syn_dir}/||g;
  $file=join("/",$msuf,$file);
  my $m_report_link= join("", " <a href='", $file, "'>[matrix_report]</a>");

  ################
  ## Print information for the matrix in the HTML
  my $html_sep="<\/th>\n<th>";

  #Create the header for the HTML matrix-wise report
  print  $matrices_synthesis_index "<tr>\n"; #initialize line

  my $matrix_report_line_hml="";

  if ($m_tf) {
    $matrix_report_line_hml="<td>".join("</td>\n<td>",$msuf,$m_tf,$m_report_link,$colored_consensus,$num_reg_genes)."</td>";
  } else {
    $matrix_report_line_hml="<td>".join("</td>\n<td>",$msuf,$msuf,$m_report_link,$colored_consensus,$num_reg_genes)."</td>";
  }
  print  $matrices_synthesis_index  $matrix_report_line_hml."</tr>\n"; #finish line

}

################################################################
## Close the tab and HTML report files
sub CloseMatricesReport{
    print $matrices_synthesis_index  "</table>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index  "</body>\n";
    print $matrices_synthesis_index  "</html>\n";

    &RSAT::message::Info("Report table for matrices  ",  $outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_tab"} ) if ($main::verbose >= 1);
    &RSAT::message::Info("Report HTML table for matrices ", $outfile{"all_matrices_synthesis_html"} ) if ($main::verbose >= 1);

    ################
    ## Close Matrices report html and table
    close $matrices_synthesis_index ;
    close $matrices_synthesis_table ;

}


__END__
